"But how do you know?" — Marge Gunderson, Fargo, 1996

Computer simulations demonstrate that tests of Bell’s Inequalities produce valid results in “naive” ideal conditions, but are challenged by the ease that false results can be generated by a host of factors within the experiment itself or the environment. This paper proposes control tests as means to confirm the absence of known or unknown effects that could invalidate the test results (causing either false positive violations or false negative lack of violations).

Ideal tests of Bell’s Inequalities [25] detect the difference between particles that have no definite polarization angle (or spin) until measured, and then adopt polarization of (or opposite of) a deflector device (a philosophy attributed to quantum theory, but criticized as paradoxical by ERP [1]). Versus particles that have a definite polarization angle (or spin) before deflection and detection, a property (or “variable”) known only to the particle itself until external measurement (a philosophy attributed to Einstein in his EPR paper and clarified by Bohm).

Control Test Criteria below is proposed as a requirement for settling the issue of, in the language of J.S. Bell, “the Nature of Reality” of the very small.



Control Test Criteria
(Proposed Gold Standard for Bell Tests, version 0.9942)

A Bell’s Inequalities Experiment may demonstrate that it does not return biased results, by meeting requirements of both Strong Violation and Clear Non-Violation control tests.

Experiment results may satisfy requirements for one of the control tests. For example, if the Experiment produces a strong violation, then the Strong Violation control test requirements have been met, and the Clear Non-Violation control test is required. If an Experiment produces a clear non-violation, then the Clear Non-Violation control test requirements have been met, and the Strong Violation control test is required.

Requirements for Control Tests:

Use a statistically significant trial size.

The starting point of the Experiment is defined as the point immediately after the Experiment’s source emitter, or after the control test’s source emitter and apparatus to condition particles for control testing.

Control test may use their own source emitter and apparatus to condition particles before entering the starting point of the Experiment.

The Experiment may not be altered in any way from the point particles enter the Experiment starting point through deflector to final detection.

Clear Non-Violation control test must emit orthogonal or antiparallel particle pairs that are not correlated with nor have knowledge of Experiment’s conditions after the starting point, including deflector polarization angles.

Strong Violation control test may have full knowledge of Experiment’s conditions including deflector polarization angles and the nature of apparatus that might rotate particle polarizations between starting point and deflector.

Recommendations for Control Tests:

Clear Non-Violation control test may be setup to generate clear non-violations by emitting classical clone particle pairs such that each new (orthogonal or antiparallel) particle pair is emitted pre-polarized to a known, randomly selected polarization axis.

Strong Violation control test may be setup to generate strong violations by emitting quantum analogs such that each new (orthogonal or antiparallel) particle pair is emitted pre-polarized such that one of the particles will have a polarization angle that exactly matches or exactly opposes its deflector angle at the time that the particle reaches the deflector. This may also require anticipating and correcting for any polarization rotation caused by the Experiment between starting point and deflector.
(Simplify the Experiment design if necessary to accommodate control testing.)

Control tests for biases should take precedence over exotic mechanisms to account for exotic loopholes.

Experiments that meet control test requirements can be assumed to be unbiased and able to return results that settle the EPR question. Experimental Violation of Bell’s Inequalities indicates a win for Quantum Philosophy. Non-Violation of Bell’s Inequalities indicates a win for Classical Philosophy.

Refer to:
“Bertlmann’s Socks and the Nature of Reality”, J.S. Bell 1980 [25] — for an accessible explanation of his 1964 paper “On the Einstein Podolsky Rosen Paradox” [11] that explains how to experimentally test Einstein’s EPR proof [1].


Context

Bell’s Inequalities is a test to determine the true nature of the very small [25]. Are properties of fundamental particles (like polarity and spin) random until measured as Quantum Mechanics (QM) argues? Or do particles have specific properties (like polarity and spin) before they are measured, as Einstein Podolsky and Rosen (EPR) argue? Computer simulations [13] of CHSH/Eberhart tests appear to confirm that Bell’s Inequality tests can conclusively detect the difference between QM vs EPR modeled reality. (Quantum [QM] models clearly violate Bell’s Inequalities.)